# MetaTx Crew Agenda - Meeting 0

Original: https://hackmd.io/-fF2VKIFRzyiWaxVQAh0wA?edit

Since the creation of ERC-1077/1078, we figured out that we can do somepretty cool things with delegated execution of meta-txs. Many projects have sprung up surrounding this. So far we have had little communication between projects. There is a lot to be gained in doing so as we seem to all face similar challenges and issues. 

Plus there is an opportunity to also explore the possibility of a permissionless p2p meta-tx network which will be srsly fucking cool.

## What we look to work on & progress so far...

- **Exploring the possibility of a permissionless p2p meta-tx network** where there is a decentralised pool of meta-txs that can be executed by a decentralised pool of service node executors

-> Austin & the Tenzorum squad have had an initial first call about this and have decide that the first step to take is to share how we have designed the meta-tx. So far TokenSubs (Austin), Tenzorum, Uport have uploaded their meta-tx designs here: https://github.com/austintgriffith/meta-transaction-format-share 

-> We would love more teams that are working on this to participate and we are going to decide on the next step in meeting-0

- **Sharing problems** we have come across and how we can figuring out how to solve them efficiently

-> We have started to share problems we are trying to solve here with discussions beginning to take place: https://github.com/austintgriffith/meta-transaction-format-share/issues

-> Mainly about how to propagate meta-tx across service node network + reward economics / gas-reward dynamics & finding market equilibrium

- **Gathering a list of projects** & info about meta-tx / gas delegation: [LINK]

- **Writing up a blog post overviewing** all the different meta-tx projects out there. Currently in-progress by Golem, MP & friends.

- **We now have a telegram chat to join** When you join, please introduce yourself and share what you are working on: https://t.me/joinchat/HcTaOxJH6OzCna2UWJZo9A

## Agenda for this first meeting
*// Free free to add your own points, notes or even add to existing agenda items. Find this buttom on the top left side of the page to edit/add.*

![](https://i.imgur.com/6MTGy3k.png)

### tldr: get on the same page with language, define our problems and share our roadmaps in development

- **Define the language we use and get on the same page.** (gas delegation, meta-tx, gasless transactions, service nodes, relayers etc.) 

-> Tenzorum has begun to create a definitions section here in their docs https://github.com/Tenzorum/.documentation/blob/master/TSNN.md#jargon--definition-of-terms

- **Share our progress so far on meta-txs and what our individual project/team project are at. What problems we are working on right now, what next, what is on our minds...**

-> Anything that comes up here outside the agenda is added to the bottom of the agenda for this meeting's call.

- **Discuss immediate next steps to achieve decentralised execution of meta-tx** (now that we have shared how we have designed our meta-txs)

-> Austin & the Tenzorum squad have had an initial first call about this and have decide that the first step to take is to share how we have designed the meta-tx. So far TokenSubs (Austin), Tenzorum, Uport have uploaded their meta-tx designs here: https://github.com/austintgriffith/meta-transaction-format-share* 

-> Gather requirements of teams building meta-txs...

-> Set requirements for MVP, trusted parties only

-> Discuss the transportation layer of this protocol? libp2p, whisper?

-> Contract standard for establishing onchcain indication between fund contract (that pays for gas) and the public key that is signing the meta-tx. ERC725? Or a lighter more specific design?

-> What other considerations do we potentially need to share/standardise on for the decentralised execution of meta-txs happen? 

- **Other problems surrounding the design meta-tx protocol** (This meeting we will likely just be defining issues and problems to solve then creating threads on the github for them.)

-> Problem surrounding service node Tx relay selection (needs algo to to determine which nodes gets Txs and how much / how often). Should this be designed on the p2p service node layer or the network transportation layer?

-> Consensus on tx ordering? batched POW of txs with trimmed header hash? 

-> Service node staking, slashing? Service node onchain eth gas issue...

- **Decide on a org name for the github**

--- Meta-tx Guild
--- Inteplantetary Meta Wagon (IPMW)
--- FullMeta Alchemists
--- The Meta Cartel
--- Long Range Ballistic Transactions (LRBT)
--- Metascape Heroes

--- El Cartel de las Meta (ECDLM)

Plus official org site similar to erc725alliance.org?

## Recommended preparation for this meeting

- Read this whole page carefully.

# Details 

**Date & Time:** 

- Thursday 27th September, 5PM CEST (UTC +2)

please tally your timezone
https://www.timeanddate.com/time/zones/

CEST (UTC +2) europe: peter, sina, marek, piotr
EST Sydney: mark, Scott
MDT Denver: Austin
UTC-7 (Until Nov 4 / UTC-8 After Nov 4): Doug
UTC-4 (Until Nov 4) / UTC-5 (After Nov 4): Kyle
EEST: George

**Time:** 1hr, highly likely to go over this as a caution

**Meeting join link:**
https://zoom.us/j/537930220

For now join the telegram (Please intro yourself, if u don't intro yourself, I swear to god I will kcick you from the chat lmao): https://t.me/joinchat/HcTaOxJH6OzCna2UWJZo9A

**Attendees**
- Pet3rpan, PM @Tenzorum 
- Mark, Software @Tenzorum
- Marek, @Ethworks
- Austin, metatx.io
- Matt, Software @ Bounties Network
- Tobias, Product @ Gnosis Safe
- Richard, Tech @ Gnosis Safe
- Kyle, Architect @ Boomerang Project
- Sina
- Doug King, CTO @ Verity
- Piotr, Tech @ ChronoLogic
- Julien, @ Argent
- Olivier, @ Argent
- MP, Meme @ Golem
- Beltran, @ENS
- Scott, @Gitcoin
- Mokhtar Bacha, @fuel (Consensys)
- George, @LimeChain.tech
- James Young, @ SpankChain

**...add yourself, permissionless cryptoanarchy!!**
